[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: How many
times have you told yourself
you're going to do things
differently, stop bad habits,
or start a new endeavor, only to
disappoint yourself in the end?
Well, you can stop
beating yourself up.
Today's guest, Rob
Williams, will tell you
that it's nearly impossible to
change behavior from your will
alone, because your behavior
is driven by the subconscious
mind.
Unless you go inside and begin
to reprogram the subconscious,
your attempts to change
will likely be challenged.
Well, you've probably
heard this before.
What you may not know
is that there is now
a fast and powerful
way to do this,
through what is known
as PSYCH-K. Rob,
it's good to see you again.
I think last time
we sat together
and did this was
seven years ago.
>>ROB WILLIAMS: I think so.
>>REGINA: It's been a while.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
>>REGINA: It's been a while, and
a lot has changed in your field
since then.
But the bones of it
are still proving
to be incredibly powerful
and effective every day.
So, what I'd like
to do is talk to you
about the inception
of it, for those
who are not familiar
with PSYCH-K,
and then I would like to move
into some of the really, truly
stunning experiments you've
been conducting recently.
>>WILLIAMS: Mm-hm.
OK.
>>REGINA: So first of all, we
have interviewed Bruce Lipton
here, on one of our
other shows, as have I,
and I met you two together.
Now let's start
out as a platform.
Let's start there.
How did you and Bruce find
an overlay in your work,
and then the
inception of PSYCH-K
as well, all rolled
into one answer?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's
a wonderful story.
I like telling it, so
I'm glad you asked.
Bruce and I met
about 20 years ago.
He's a dear friend of
mine and a colleague,
so we ended up working together.
After we met, found out why
we should work together,
for about 14 years.
And the meeting process
itself was interesting,
because Bruce and
I were speakers
at the same conference.
It was in the Rocky Mountains,
actually, in this area.
And Bruce had done his
normal firing everybody up,
and giving them new
information about genes,
and they're not a
victim of their genes,
or the genetic makeup in
any way, shape, or form--
>>REGINA: Which some people
were not happy to hear.
>>WILLIAMS: Well, yeah,
yeah, a lot of people
weren't happy to hear it,
mostly mainstream science,
because they were all invested
in the Genome Project, which
turned out to be a bust.
>>REGINA: Almost a bust, really.
Yeah.
>>WILLIAMS: Very much so.
>>REGINA: And because, that's
not determining who we are.
>>WILLIAMS: Right.
It doesn't determine who we are.
The genes, essentially,
are like, Bruce would say,
a blueprint.
They're waiting for
something to happen.
They don't have
self-emergent properties,
he would say, as a biologist.
In other words, they don't
turn themselves on and off.
There's no on and
off switch for genes.
The really important
thing about that
is that he had come
to the conclusion
that what does turn
genes on and off
are actually your
belief systems.
And these belief systems are
not just the conscious belief
systems, but more importantly,
the subconscious ones.
And Bruce-- I was
stunned to hear him
as he was giving
his presentation.
I was to follow the presentation
in this particular conference.
And he's talking about all
these wonderful things,
and I'm thinking, how
does a biologist know
about any of this?
What's that got to do with--
what's biology got to do with--
>>REGINA: Classical
biology, yeah.
Exactly.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah, yeah, it
seemed really odd to me.
But I was fascinated that he was
talking about belief systems.
And so he gets to the
end of his presentation,
after he's made this
wonderful connection,
and frees everybody from
this idea that we're just
victims of our genes,
and he says, so,
what you really need
to learn how to do
is change your beliefs.
So lots of hands, of course,
go up, and people are saying,
well, Dr. Lipton, Dr. Lipton--
how do you change your beliefs?
And he says, I don't know.
I'm a biologist.
I have to go now.
[LAUGHTER] So--
>>REGINA: Part two.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And that's exactly
what happened.
Bruce was on his
way out the door.
He finished, and then
it was a conference
where I was up next to speak.
And before he got to the
door in the back of the room,
I said, well, I want to thank
Dr. Lipton for enlightening us
about how it is that we
get to be who we are,
and that beliefs are a key
part of changing who we are,
and aiming in a different
direction in our life.
And I said, and I'm going
to show you how to do that.
Well, you could almost hear
the soles of his feet--
his shoes skidding to a
stop, because he was not
interested in whatever
was next, if it
didn't have to do a biology.
But he stopped, and he
turned around, I saw him
in the back of the
room, and our eyes met.
And I said, so,
thank you, Bruce,
for introducing the
idea of beliefs,
and I'm going to
show you how you
can change those in
a matter of minutes.
Well, instead of
leaving the room,
he found a seat in
the back and sat down,
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WILLIAMS: And he watched
a demonstration of PSYCH-K,
of the belief change
work that I do.
And he watched a woman
go from abject terror
of public speaking-- because
we had her greatest fear there.
There were some 120 or so
people in this conference,
and there was her fear.
It might have been
a room of snakes,
if you had a snake phobia.
But her fear was people.
And being able to stand up in
front of them, be comfortable,
and speaking her mind.
But we did this process,
took about 10 minutes to do.
Bruce watched the process.
The woman went from shaking
on the stage, with me,
as I said, why
don't you introduce
yourself a little
bit to the group?
Well, she couldn't do that.
So we did the process.
And right after this
process was completed,
she starts to say, well, I
really do feel different.
And she said, it's very odd.
I don't feel--
>>REGINA: Did she take over?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah--
she took over.
As a matter of fact, she did.
I thought I was going to have
to yank her off the stage,
because she's kind of
walking up and down,
and talking to people,
because she's liberated.
Now she's free to be
in this relationship
with this mass of people.
It was wonderful.
>>REGINA: Well, that was
very validating for you,
with Bruce watching.
Because that was to become the
beginning of a wonderful love
affair.
>>WILLIAMS: Well,
that's very true.
>>REGINA: Business love affair.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
We very much respect each other.
It's like a mutual
admiration society.
And we learned, right
then, that his story
stops where mine begins.
And we thought,
there's a fit here.
People should have
the whole story.
This is how you get
to be how you are,
but if you want to change it,
you can rewrite that software.
>>REGINA: That's
when I first met you.
And this was at the Science
and Consciousness Conference
in Santa Fe, when those were
still going on, years ago.
And you two were
paired at the time.
And I was just so fascinated
by the tandem information
that was being given.
Which is how we ended up
doing our last interview.
But I wanted to just interject
something, because we're
going to go into the basis of
PSYCH-K. When you're talking--
when Bruce is talking,
about the genes-- you know,
I would debate this
with people at the time,
and say, no, really.
And they'd say, well,
how come is it--
why is it that all
the women in my family
have had breast
cancer, for example.
And that's where the story
gets really interesting.
To me, that is the argument
people keep bringing up.
Yeah, but my father
had a heart attack,
and his father had
a heart attack.
There is a different kind of
inheritance than just genes.
>>WILLIAMS: Precisely.
There's a belief
system inheritance,
you might want to call it, that
essentially-- if you grow up
in a similar situation,
with similar beliefs,
like your parents got their
beliefs from their parents--
it's a hand-me-down,
generational thing--
they don't even know
they're doing it.
It's not the parents' fault.
That's what they
think reality is.
That's how they
think life works.
So they simply inform their
kids, quite automatically.
We talked about the subconscious
mind being so powerful.
It is.
It just says, OK, this
is the way life is.
It doesn't question it.
It runs that program,
over and over and over.
So you hand-- along
with the genes,
you hand down beliefs, and
perceptions, and vanities,
and values to your kids.
And as it turns out,
what Bruce is saying,
in that magnificent
moment when--
it comes at the end of
his program, and he says,
you're not a victim
of your genes.
Essentially, your
beliefs actually
activate your genetic makeup.
And then so if you have a
different set of beliefs,
those genes never get activated.
>>REGINA: And this
is even in utero.
I remember one case he wrote
about in the original book,
"Biology of Belief," that
really stunned me at the time.
It was about an
embryo-- a fetus--
that was growing up in a violent
environment inside the mother.
And that sent a signal to
the genetic development
of that fetus, that baby, to
have a thickening of the skull.
To protect itself against
any physical violence
that might be coming its way.
As, apparently, may
have been happening
with the mother or siblings.
I don't remember that
other part of the story.
That is so profound.
And this is what you
were talking about.
And this can express
itself, what--
when you're looking
at disease, we're
looking at-- there is
always a-- what's it called?
Psychoneuroimmunological
root, right?
>>WILLIAMS: Big word, yeah.
The mind/body connection.
That's exactly what it is.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So let's talk about that, and
how you developed PSYCH-K.
>>WILLIAMS: Well, PSYCH-K got
developed in 1988, actually.
In '88, '89, over the course
of a two or three month period.
I had reached a period in
my own personal growth,
in my own search for
something that would really be
an effective catalyst for
change, in my own life,
as well as in other people's.
And so, I'd gotten
to the point where
I've taken a lot of courses
in different things,
things you would
recognize today.
NLP, and hypnotherapy,
and Reiki,
and Touch for Health, and
educational kinesiology,
and just on and on and on,
investigating and searching,
as deeply as I
could and as broadly
as I could to find
out what really works.
What really gives people the
tools-- that are transferable,
not just as a
therapist, because I
was doing private
practice therapy.
And I'd gone to the University
of Colorado, gotten a master's
degree in counseling, learned
the traditional mechanisms
for therapy-- insight-based
talk therapy, primarily.
Essentially going
back in the past,
figuring out what happened,
who you blame, forgive them,
and then, supposedly,
you're just
supposed to be able to change
everything then, and move
into the future.
I didn't find that
that was the case.
I found that insight alone was
seldom a sufficient condition
to make long-lasting changes.
So I kept looking
elsewhere for the answers.
And, finally, came to a
place of frustration one day.
I mean, so severely.
I was trying to put
together a workshop
to teach something I
had already learned,
and I was part of
doing this course
in "educational
kinesiology," it was called.
Today it's called
Brain Gym, mostly.
I think that's the
most common way
people understand that process.
And so I'm putting
together this flyer,
and I was making these
really ridiculous mistakes
on the flyer.
Just little things.
There was a little
tiny box where
you put the registration
information.
Time, date, that sort
of thing-- location.
And I just messed it up.
And this wasn't like me.
I'm a perfectionist, you know?
I can make this right.
And I kept making mistakes.
I got madder and
madder at myself.
And finally, I just
stopped what I was doing.
I was really,
really angry inside.
So I went outside-- this was in
December, in Denver, Colorado,
where it was cold--
and I sat down,
and I just clenched my
fists, and I said, "OK, God.
If you don't want me to do this,
what do you want me to do?"
It was one of those moments
of, it's a rhetorical question,
I didn't expect an answer.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WILLIAMS: But in fact,
I got an answer, Regina.
And that's the beginning of
PSYCH-K. It was so amazing.
I was, one moment, in
this state of rage.
The next moment, I'm seeing
information in my head,
like a teleprompter.
I could see the words.
These weren't my words.
But I was witnessing
these words.
So I ran back into the
house, out of the cold,
and started typing what I saw
in my mind into my computer.
>>REGINA: And was this the
framework for the protocols
that what became PSYCH-K?
>>WILLIAMS: Yes.
It was the very
first pattern, and it
was a very-- of all the
patterns, and most of them
are quite simple, but this
one was more complicated.
There were 13 paired
statements of opposites,
and the entire instructions
for using this process.
It just really stunned me.
But there I was, looking
at something that I knew
came through me,
but not from me.
So my intellect
didn't have a chance
of being happy with
itself, and taking credit,
but I was so humbled
by the experience.
And so I looked at what it was.
I studied it.
It seemed to make sense.
It had components
in it of things
that I had studied
before-- a little of this,
a little of that, and so
on-- but it was put together
in a way I never
would have imagined.
Nor would I have
conceived of on my own.
>>REGINA: And you had to go
through that self-sabotage
before you would have ever
been frustrated enough,
and how many of us go
through self-sabotage
on a regular basis, trying to
stuff ourselves down some chute
that we really
shouldn't be going down.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
I thought of it as
self-sabotage in a way,
but it's also self-education.
I needed to see
everything that was
available in that
area of self help,
and I needed to be open
enough, in other words, sort
of frustrated enough,
at one moment,
to just surrender
the whole concept of,
OK, I really can't figure
this out, what's going on.
So what I said was, OK, God,
you don't want me to do this,
what do you want me to do?
In retrospect, I
look back and I say,
there's that old adage of
ask, and you shall receive?
I did.
It wasn't very nice asking.
It was more accusatory.
But nevertheless,
what was given to
me was incredibly
interesting to me.
>>REGINA: You had to be that
frustrated to be that open.
>>WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: OK.
So, now you're given the
bones of the protocols.
How did you begin, and what
was the very basic concept?
You said pairs of opposites.
Now let's start informing
us as to what that means.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
It didn't turn out to
be solely associated
with pairs of opposites.
This particular pattern is
called a "core belief balance."
Because it deals with things are
basic to our lives in general.
Statements like,
"I want to live."
And then its opposite,
"I want to die."
I love myself.
I hate myself.
That sort of thing.
These paired opposites could
be accessed, or checked into,
at the subconscious
level of the mind,
using what's called
"muscle testing."
Kinesiology is the
brand name of it,
but muscle testing could be
used in a lot of different ways.
Sometimes it's
used nutritionally,
and to test different
energy systems
in the body--
"meridian systems,"
they're called-- and so on.
But in PSYCH-K, we
don't use it that way.
We use it specifically
as a mechanism
of checking for congruency
at the subconscious level--
agreement or disagreement,
in other words--
about what something
you might say out loud.
Something as simple as, if
you were part of a dyad,
and I'm working with you, you
would say, my name is Regina.
And we would muscle test,
to see if your subconscious
mind agrees or
disagrees with that.
One would hope it would agree.
But then it gets
more interesting
when you say something
like, I love myself.
People have spent years
in front of mirrors,
saying I love myself,
I love myself,
and the voice that's coming
back in their head says,
no you don't, no you
don't, and besides,
here are all the reasons
why you shouldn't.
So these are all programs
that we carry around,
that oftentimes are not
worthy of who we are,
or who we're becoming.
And that's where things
get real interesting.
>>REGINA: Let me ask you
a question at this point,
because there are
people, we all know
people-- you know,
it's like, how
do they do that-- that make a
decision-- I'm going to stop
smoking tomorrow--
and that's it.
And they never smoke again.
There are people that
say the same thing.
Any behavior, any habit,
where they simply lay down
the law with themselves,
and through will,
are able to do it.
What is the difference
with someone
like that versus the
rest of us, that struggle
with these kinds of
habitual changes?
>>WILLIAMS: Sure.
My experience in
the last 25 years
tells me that the real
difference, typically,
is, there's very little, if
any, subconscious resistance
to a conscious decision
one makes, and then
uses will to change
their path in life.
But when there are a lot of
subconscious programs-- "sub,"
by the way, means below,
so below the level
of your conscious awareness--
>>REGINA: So you
don't know what it is.
>>WILLIAMS: You don't
know what it is.
You don't even know it's there,
except you see the effect.
It can turn into
being self-sabotaging.
being procrastination.
It can be-- you're
just habituated
to do this over and over again.
And you find yourself
doing it before you're even
consciously aware of it.
You can't stop it.
So, to me, what I found out was
the people that could change
using, say, just insight-based
counseling and therapy,
could change because
they didn't really
have any resistance to
moving in that direction.
What they needed was
information and a plan
to move in that direction.
But people who got the
plan, got the information,
knew exactly what caused
them to be the way they were,
and couldn't change, clearly had
self-sabotaging, self-limiting,
beliefs at the subconscious
level of the mind.
And when those got
changed-- and that's
the essence and
core of PSYCH-K--
to be able to shift
those beliefs,
write new software for
your own hard drive,
and change the
printout of your life--
that made a huge difference.
Because then,
everything was lined up.
Your subconscious beliefs
supported your conscious goals,
and everybody's moving
in the same direction.
>>REGINA: Well, now
that you say that, when
I think of the
people-- just a couple,
off the top of my head--
those people have, usually,
a very clear way of living,
good, solid self-esteem.
They also don't seem to be
dragging a lot of other issues
with them.
>>WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So that might
be indicative of what
you're talking about.
>>WILLIAMS: Usually so.
If their lives are
pretty in order,
they don't have a lot of
things that are bugging them,
and what they really want to
do is just improve their life,
generally, then, will power,
affirmations, or visualization,
or any kind of positive
thinking will work.
It's just that the vast
majority of people,
I'd say easily 80%
of the population,
doesn't do it that way,
and can't do it that way.
They are really internalized--
they have internalized--
many programs that don't allow
this ease of moving forward.
>>REGINA: Right.
And they're showing up
feeling defeated already,
with their New Year's
resolution on January 1.
Yeah, I'm going to
make this resolution.
It probably won't
work, but-- yeah.
I know what you're
talking about,
is that kind of thinking.
OK.
Now, you had the
beginning part of it.
Can you give us a little
more expanded idea
of how you would implement
these protocols when you're
working with
someone, for example.
So people can get
a flavor for it.
>>WILLIAMS: Sure.
It's really very
simple, logically.
It's very rational.
The whole interaction
begins with,
so why did you come today?
What do you want to
change in your life?
Why are you here?
And so a person says,
well, I can't do this,
or this is happening in my
life, and I want to change it.
Very quickly in PSYCH-K,
we move to the future,
instead of the past.
Traditional therapy
takes you to the past,
and says, well who did
what to whom, and when,
and figures out how come you're
behaving the way you are.
But the really
important thing here
isn't how things have been.
It's how you want them to be.
So very quickly, anybody that's
a facilitator of PSYCH-K--
and there are thousands of
people worldwide now doing
this work, and
over 40 instructors
teaching it around the
world in workshops,
so people can learn to
do this for themselves--
it turns out that moving towards
the future, and solutions,
instead of wallowing in the
problems, is a huge first step.
Very critical to
re-framing and redirecting
your attention and intention.
So as soon as you go
to this place of, well,
what would a solution look like?
It's very interesting.
For the longest time, I would
start these sessions like that,
and the person
would tell me, well,
what's wrong, what's going
on, and I'd say, well,
if it didn't have to
be that way any longer,
if we could do something
right here, right now,
that would change that
forever, what would you
like to see in your life?
What would you like
your life to be like?
And the most common
response was this.
They just stared like
a deer in headlights.
They had never thought about
what they wanted instead--
>>REGINA: They just
knew what they wanted--
>>WILLIAMS: -- of
what they have.
>>REGINA: -- to get rid of.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
They were all
about the negative.
All about the limitations.
>>REGINA: So of course that
reinforces that consciousness.
>>WILLIAMS: Of course it does.
>>REGINA: Thought by
thought, day by day,
year by year, you're
reinforcing it,
by remembering and involving
yourself in the past.
>>WILLIAMS: Right.
Especially since
you've had no vision
of what you'd like
it to be instead.
But as soon as the facilitator
can help a person move from how
it's been to how
they want it to be?
Boy.
You're over halfway there
in any PSYCH-K session.
Because at that point,
what you're going to do
is take that information of
how they want the future to be,
condense it down
into a statement that
is designed, specifically,
to be internalized
at the subconscious
level of the mind.
And it turns out
the subconscious
doesn't think like
the conscious mind.
So, we're having this
conversation right now.
Mostly, the subconscious
mind would not
have an idea of what
we're talking about,
because it thinks
very literally, almost
like a five-year-old child.
A precocious five-year-old, but
a five-year-old nevertheless.
If you want to talk
to the subconscious,
you have to talk in
very concrete terms.
So once we could, how would I
say-- capsulize this intention,
which might be quite abstract,
about what a person wants
in the future, into a
statement the subconscious can
internalize, then,
then, we can enter
one of the balance processes,
or the change processes,
in PSYCH-K.
And there are numerous ones.
It's not one thing.
It's not, you just do
this, one size fits all.
It doesn't work with therapy.
It doesn't work with clothing.
>>REGINA: Right.
What you're saying
would not bode well
for the entire industry
of talk therapy.
Basically, you're continuing
to repeat, and then reinforce,
the feelings of the
past in talk therapy.
And so, this is really
a moving beyond that.
Maybe people do this because
it's offering a friend.
Someone to talk to.
A comfort of some kind.
But in reality, it's
not a quick path
to change, which is
why so many people seem
to stay in therapy for
year after year after year.
>>WILLIAMS: Right.
Therapy-- I will say
about talk therapy,
that its advantage
and its utility
rests in its ability for you
to get context of your life,
so that you see how
things fit together.
>>REGINA: So there
you get your insights.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
The insights are important.
But after insight, that's
where talk therapy generally
stops in its effectiveness.
The expectation is, and
this is what I was taught
in the university training,
is, once you have the "a-ha,"
the insight, then
things just change.
Well, ah, that
wasn't my experience.
Hardly at all did
that ever happen.
So you start with
insight, that's great.
People then understand
the nature of their lives.
>>REGINA: That's
almost your base camp.
>>WILLIAMS: It is.
You can start with that.
Good, insight-based
talk therapists
can help you very quickly
connect the dots in your life.
You see how this
affects this, and this
is how these things go together.
And the impact of them.
But then, the next step
is the critical step.
You have to move from OK, that's
what was, and that's why it is,
to how do you want it to be?
Then you're creating a new--
>>REGINA: But isn't there
often an addiction in there?
A little addiction to
some of the, maybe,
misunderstood consequences,
or benefits from--
>>WILLIAMS: Oh, sure,
sure, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
If you rewrite the software
of the subconscious,
you've got a way better chance
of making long-lasting changes
than just having the insight.
But you're absolutely right.
In psychology, it's
called "secondary gain."
>>REGINA: Secondary gain, right.
>>WILLIAMS: There's
a benefit, a payoff
you've had all those
years from what
you consider to be a disability.
Which, on one hand, it is.
But on the other hand, it's
an ability, to get a need met.
And sometimes, what
happens is, when
a person changes their
perception at the subconscious
level and begins
behaving differently,
that critical need-- which might
be getting attention, love,
feeling important, feeling
valuable, being a victim
so somebody will save you--
those kinds of things?
>>REGINA: It's all being met.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
Huge payoff.
So if you don't have that need
met with the new way of being,
sometimes people will revert
back to the old way of being.
The good news about
that in PSYCH-K
is this-- as soon as you
recognize that's the case,
then you can build
in that need getting
met with the new
vision of the future.
>>REGINA: OK.
Good.
That's good to know.
>>WILLIAMS: So you're not
just stuck, in that way.
Because negotiating basic
needs out of the system
doesn't work at all.
You just have to figure out a
new way to get that need met.
>>REGINA: Very good.
Very good point.
And when we're looking at the
subconscious mind, as you said,
it's not heavily nuanced.
You're talking about
being bludgeoned.
Oftentimes it's trauma
and pain that many people
have learned through.
And that they have
adapted their behavior to
for survival, or whatnot.
So you have to work with
a different set of tools.
You can know that someone
said something really, just,
horrific to you that
destroyed your self-esteem
when you were five
years old, for example.
You can say that,
but the reality
is the feelings
of it don't change
by even recognizing that.
Right?
>>WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And that
feeling, that's the buzz.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
The feeling is the
program expressing itself.
>>WILLIAMS: Feelings are the
direct response of perception.
If you perceive that, whatever
happened to you in the past,
it can be really traumatic
and all that from one person's
point of view, but no big deal
from another person's point
of view.
It's real interesting
how the human mind
in each individual processes
experience quite differently.
>>REGINA: Give me an idea
of a couple of the-- we
have a couple
minutes before we're
going to take a little break.
I'd like to know what happened
in one of your first really
big breakthroughs, when
you put this together.
Give us an example.
>>WILLIAMS: The biggest
one, the one that
happened first, that really put
it on the map for me to say,
there's something here
that's very important,
was that a woman was referred
to me, who had just gotten out
of drug and alcohol
rehab, and she'd
been diagnosed with
Crohn's disease.
That's a
gastrointestinal disorder
that typically is incurable from
the mainstream medical model's
point of view.
And I worked with her.
That very first
pattern I told you
about that was given
to me in my head,
called the core belief balance?
She was the first person
I ever did that with.
And so, we ran that pattern.
It took about 45 minutes to
do, because I was new at it,
and because it's a little
bit more complicated
with these 13 paired
statements, and so on.
But we went through the
whole pattern of change.
This is something you do lying
down, rather than standing up,
so she was on a body table,
like a massage table.
So she gets off the table
after the thing is over,
and she looks at
me, and she says,
I don't know what just happened,
but something just changed.
And I said, great.
I don't know what
happened, either.
>>REGINA: Let's find out.
>>WILLIAMS: And tell me
what the change is like.
So, to make a long
story short, I
saw her, couple, two or three
more times in an hour session,
and so on.
She went back to
the clinic-- this
was in Nevada, the GI clinic,
gastrointestinal clinic--
and had new pictures, new
X-rays taken, of her colon.
And there was no
sign of Crohn's.
>>REGINA: How long
after this was--
>>WILLIAMS: This was
maybe two, three months.
It wasn't long it all.
And so, of course,
when the clinic
looked at her pictures, and
the first thing they said,
well, we must have
the wrong X-rays,
because there's no Crohn's here.
There's no blockage in
the intestinal tract.
And then they said, well,
no, they're the right X-rays.
She said, well that can't
be, because it's incurable.
So it must be some kind
of spontaneous remission.
They make up words for
incurable diseases being cured,
because in their world,
that's impossible.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WILLIAMS: And yet,
that was the case.
>>REGINA: But you have seen this
over and over and over again.
The body has an innate ability
to take care of itself,
if we get out of its way.
Is that correct?
>>WILLIAMS: I would say it
a little bit differently,
but real close to
what you just said.
The body has an innate
ability to take instructions
from the subconscious mind.
And when the signals from
the subconscious to the body
change, the body
changes its response.
What we see is
the body changing,
so, it's kind of like
watching somebody drive a car,
but you're not from a planet
where there are any cars.
And the windows are
real dark, and there's
somebody in there driving
it, but you don't know that.
You see the car doing all
kinds of intelligent things,
so you think the
car is intelligent.
When, in fact, the
driver's intelligent.
If they stop the car
and the driver gets out,
the car is really stupid.
Then it just sits there and
doesn't know what to do.
So the idea here, and
we've done this a lot
in complementary healing,
and integrative medicine,
is to talk about the
wisdom of the body.
But if Bruce Lipton were
here in this interview,
he would say, well,
that's not exactly true.
That what's true about the body
is it has this innate capacity
to respond to what he would
call epigenetic signals.
Signals above the genes.
Which is the mind.
The mind informs the
body, the cells then
produce the chemistry, and then
you see the effect in the body.
>>REGINA: So what's
the chain, then,
when you have the conscious
mind, the subconscious mind?
Do you have to make a conscious
decision to even take on change
to begin with, before you
inspire the subconscious
change?
So does it start with a choice?
>>WILLIAMS: Yes.
>>REGINA: A conscious choice.
>>REGINA: And then it goes to
working with the subconscious,
and then it goes
into the physical?
>>WILLIAMS: The conscious
mind's job is to look at life,
look at what's going on
in your life, and say,
is this working for me?
Is this not working for me?
It's the initial one that
decides on what your goal is.
But right after that part?
It better be partnered
up with the subconscious.
>>REGINA: OK.
On that note, we're going
to take a short break,
and when we come
back, we're going
to look at some of the
other examples of people
that Rob has worked with,
which are really just stunning.
We'll be back in just a moment.
>>REGINA: We are
back, and we're going
to talk about a very, very
personal experience for Rob,
because it had to do with his
mother, who had breast cancer.
But I would like you to give
a little bit of backstory
to this.
So we can see it come full
circle by the end of this.
>>WILLIAMS: Sure.
Well, because of
this interview, I
started thinking a lot about
the backstory, as you say,
and how all this began.
And I remember, when I was in my
20s, or maybe 22, 23 years old,
something like that, I
was living in California.
My mother was there, of course.
And she was really
this, sort of,
spiritual mentor to
me in my early 20s.
I was at UCLA,
studying philosophy,
and a form of philosophy
that's really sort of-- it's
called logical positivism.
And it's really
materially-based.
And its version of
spirituality isn't anything
like we talk about
spirituality these days.
And she kept nudging me to take
a broader perspective of what
philosophy really was,
and what spirituality was,
and at one point, she
just kept hounding
me to go see this woman
she thought the world of,
that did past life regressions
and psychic readings.
And I thought, that's
just ridiculous.
That's all just crap, Mom.
I'm not going to go
listen to some woman
go on about stuff that
can't possibly be true.
She's making it up, anyway.
Well, my mother was persistent.
Now look, son, won't you do
this just for your mother?
Guilt trips.
>>REGINA: Guilt trips.
>>WILLIAMS: Exactly.
So I went and sat with this
woman for a couple of hours,
and she did this, what she
called a "soul reading."
And that was really
the beginning
of me being very
inquisitive about things
I didn't understand.
>>REGINA: Did it resonate
with you at that time?
Once you sat in the
chair across from her?
Or were you resistant to it?
>>WILLIAMS: Yes.
It resonated, and
I was resistant.
I didn't want to believe
what she was telling me.
Some of it I couldn't confirm.
There were past lives I
don't know anything about.
You're this, and you did this.
But what was interesting
about it, Regina, was
that the qualities and
attributes that this woman
spoke of, that I had now--
and this is at the tender
age of 20-something-- I had
the whole rest of my life ahead
of me-- she said, you could
be good at this, and this,
and this.
I knew that, but she had
no right to know that,
as far as I was concerned.
So I did my best to
just dismiss her.
And I couldn't.
The fact is, then
she got me curious.
So I went to see two more
psychics after that, because I
figured, my logical
mind told me,
if you go see another psychic--
I mean, they're all the same,
aren't they?
You would see another
one, and he or she
would tell you something
different, well, then--
>>REGINA: The first
one was wrong.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
The first one was wrong, or
the second one's faking it--
>>REGINA: You're on your
path, trying to disprove them.
>>WILLIAMS: Exactly.
I was on the "this
can't be true" path.
>>REGINA: Well, obviously you
got on this "can be true" path,
because we're here, so-- OK.
So that's the lineage--
>>WILLIAMS: That
was her gift to me.
>>REGINA: That was a
gift from your mother.
>>WILLIAMS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so,
let's talk about what
happened when your mom found
out she had breast cancer.
>>WILLIAMS: Sure.
At the time, she was living
in San Diego, California,
and I was living
here in Colorado.
And she was planning on
moving out of the city.
The city had outgrown her.
She just couldn't get around, it
was not good for her to drive,
she was 81 years old.
So she's looking for
a quieter place, where
she can have a quieter life,
and a small group of friends,
and it's not so tense.
So she chose the
small town where
I live, in South
Central Colorado.
So she had all the plans set
up, she was ready to move,
and she did one last thing.
She thought, well, I better go
get a real good medical check
up before I move
out to the boonies.
And so she did.
She saw an oncologist,
and some other physicians
at Scripps Institute, one of
the finest medical facilities
in the country.
And it turns out
they did a mammogram,
and it turns out they found
cancer in one of her breasts.
And the oncologist said,
essentially, this is not good,
and you need to have a radical
mastectomy immediately.
She was stunned, of
course, for this diagnosis,
and the prognosis,
which was pretty grim.
So she went home.
She said, I need
to sleep on this.
She went home that night,
and she had a dream.
And that dream was that she
did consent to the operation,
but she died on the
operating table.
>>REGINA: Ooh.
>>WILLIAMS: And this
was very real to her.
>>REGINA: Ooh.
I have chills.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
Me, too, when she told me.
So she wakes up the next
day with this vivid dream
in her mind, and said, I
can't go down that road.
So she asked some more
questions about the cancer.
It was a slow-growing
kind of cancer,
but nevertheless
life-threatening.
And she made a
call at that point.
I'm not going to go
through with this surgery.
She believes in
these kinds of signs.
Very clearly.
>>REGINA: Yes.
As she should.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah, absolutely.
So, she moved.
And we had a
discussion about it.
All things considered,
we said, all right,
what if we set ourselves a
goal of, six months from now,
we'll go back to a hospital--
not back to California,
but one in Colorado--
have new pictures taken,
and compare the two,
and see what happens.
If we can't redirect this
disease process using PSYCH-K,
much less invasive-- you get
to keep both breasts, for one
thing-- then, if it
turns out we could not
affect it in one
way or the other,
then we would take a look
at a more radical procedure.
But what if we gave it a chance?
And she said, let's do that.
So she came.
And I talked to
her very recently,
because I couldn't
remember exactly how
many PSYCH-K sessions
we did, but we both
agreed it was
between four and six.
Not very many, over the
course of six months.
But they were very-- what can I
say?-- very meaningful to her,
because the subconscious mind
was really helping her make
some changes that she hadn't
been able to change for all
of her life.
And some of the
family interactions
that took place, that probably
were the trigger for the cancer
itself.
It's interesting that one of
the most salient features,
personality features,
of cancer patients,
is long-held anger and
resentment, unexpressed.
This is in that
psychoneuroimmunological
literature you talked about.
And I talked to her
about that, because I
was a part of the family.
There were four children in it.
My father and mother divorced
when I was about 15 years old.
They'd been married 16 years.
And as I queried
her about it, she
admitted that she hadn't
really let go of that anger.
She was very hurt, very
disappointed, very surprised,
and so on.
So we talked about
that for a little bit.
And that's what we worked on.
That sort of stuff was
the stuff that we got to
in these four to six sessions
over the six month period.
Now the interesting part
was, we went back, we
went to the hospital,
got new pictures taken,
and I was allowed to come into
the room with the radiologist,
and so was my mother.
And we were in this dark
room, and these pictures
of the X-rays were on the wall.
And I'm not a physician, so
I'm looking at the pictures,
and I see the current
picture, and it's
got this white, scarring
material in one of the breasts.
And I said, gee, that's too bad.
It looks like the
cancer's still there.
And the radiologist said,
no, that isn't cancer.
He said, that's tissue
damage from the biopsy
at Scripps Institute--
>>REGINA: The cancer was gone.
>>WILLIAMS: -- six months ago.
No.
It wasn't completely gone.
I didn't know what it was.
>>REGINA: Oh, I see.
>>WILLIAMS: So he
says, no, no, no, there
are these little dots, here.
This is the cancer.
And we compared the two.
And he said, there's
clearly been at least a 40%
to 50% reduction in
these little dots.
In the cancer.
So it's going in
the right direction.
And he looked at her, looked
at my mother, and said,
are you afraid of the C word?
Meaning cancer, of course.
And she said, no, I'm not.
And he said, then
I see no reason
for any radical action
at this time at all.
Maybe if you want to, you
can come back in six months,
we'll take some more pictures.
That was 11 years ago.
My mother is 92 years
old, still in health,
still alive, still
with both breasts.
So that drives the
point home, to me,
in a very, very personal way.
And I felt so gratified
that she had pushed me
hard enough to get
me on this path.
>>REGINA: This path
where you can save her.
>>WILLIAMS: Right.
Where I become--
>>REGINA: You're going
to help her save herself.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
>>REGINA: That's beautiful.
Now, I assume there
are other people,
many, many other people,
who have had cancers
of all kinds, who have
been helped by this?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
And I'm not the guy that's
seen all of them, fortunately--
>>REGINA: No, you have
thousands of facilitators.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
And I get to hear the stories
vicariously these days, mostly.
But they're beautiful stories.
There was one I just heard
about a woman that had diabetes.
She'd had it for
18 years, and it
had gotten to the point
where she was giving herself
insulin shots four times
a day, for eight years.
And one of our
instructors, Larry Valmore,
who's in the Denver area,
worked with this woman
for about an hour and
1/2, at one point,
and then, time
for her next shot.
Well, she checks
her insulin levels
before she takes the shot.
That determines the
potency of the shot.
And the insulin level had
dropped to virtually normal,
in just a very short
period of time.
She woke up in the morning,
and normally her insulin levels
would be even worse,
but they weren't.
They were yet even lower.
More at the normal level.
This happened very quickly.
Literally overnight.
>>REGINA: Did she essentially
reverse the diabetes?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
What happened was, she's
off the oral medicine
she's been taking, she
takes no more shots.
This was, I don't know,
five or more years later.
The important thing
here is, I think,
is to understand that, when
you think of the mind as part
of your medical team-- the
mind of the patient, not just
the mind of the doctor--
the mind of the patient
is an active ingredient
in the healing process.
And one of the most powerful,
and most underrated,
in our medical system.
I really believe, Regina,
that if our medical community
could see the mind
of the patient
as another doctor on
the team for healing,
that our entire health care
program would be so much more
effective.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Absolutely.
But we, I think we're
still a little-- that's
not under Obamacare just yet.
We're a little way,
a little way away.
But that doesn't
mean people can't
take personal
responsibility and do this.
It's not like this is something
that's going to break the bank.
Anybody, pretty much, can
afford PSYCH-K sessions,
if they were going to go that.
So you've made it something--
it's a modality that's
very accessible to
the average person,
and I want to get into
some other areas of this,
because we've only talked about
physical health challenges.
Obviously, this extends
to emotional, mental,
but it even extends
to spiritual.
And this is where
I wanted to get
into that incredible
experiment you did.
But first, let's set it up.
Who is Doctor Jeffrey
Fannin, and how did you meet?
And what was the genesis
for this experiment
you're going to tell us about?
>>WILLIAMS: Well, it was
a wonderful and fortuitous
meeting, almost
two years ago now.
And Jeff is a wonderful man,
and a fabulous neuroscientist.
And he and I met sort
of in an odd way,
through a middle person
who actually knew Jeff.
And Jeff was helping this
person set up her own setup
for doing neuroscience.
Essentially, brain
mapping and such.
And so, it was this
woman that introduced
Jeff to PSYCH-K for the
first time said, "Do you
know about this?"
And he said, "I've
never heard of it."
"Well, would you like to
know something about it?
Because I think it ties
into what we're doing."
And so Jeff said, well, sure.
And so she facilitated
a change process
called the "optimal
health balance."
This balance is kind of like
that core belief balance
I told you about, except
there's 22 statements involved,
and they're all derived from the
field of psychoneuroimmunology.
They're all the
characteristics and qualities
of people who stay well.
Not people who get sick.
It's not studying
pathology here.
We're talking about just like--
>>REGINA: Interesting.
How much money is there
normally dedicated
to that in the universities?
Virtually nothing.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
And so--
>>REGINA: Because there's
not a drug for it.
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
You can't bottle it and sell it.
But the beauty of it is that
once you introduce these belief
systems to a person, it's
like cloning healthy beliefs.
Instead of having your body
filled with information
from toxic beliefs, you
turn that around completely,
and say, all right,
what if this were true?
What if this were your reality?
That immediately begins
to change biochemistry.
It's a beautiful thing.
And anybody can do this.
>>REGINA: You know what's
interesting about that
is people tend to have
a resistance to that.
They think, oh, that's not true.
I'm just telling myself a lie.
You're telling yourselves
lies all day long, anyway.
Right?
You're just telling
an old story that's
worn out and no longer true by
reinforcing these subconscious
beliefs.
That's a lie.
But there seems to
be something in us
where we want to be so
diligent to the conscious mind
that we won't allow ourselves
to insert a new story.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: What's up with that?
>>WILLIAMS: And remember
that the new story told
at the conscious level
has very little effect
on the subconscious.
And very little effect
on your biochemistry.
This is the reason that there
is PSYCH-K. Its core value is
it delivers conscious wisdom
to the subconscious mind, where
it can turn into
constructive biochemistry.
So using the same idea,
taking these belief systems
and then introducing them to
the subconscious mind using
one of the patterns
for doing that,
is a whole big different deal
than saying affirmations--
oh, I'm really well, I trust
my body to heal itself,
I'm powerful-- and that's
interesting, but not
necessarily to the subconscious,
unless you speak its language.
Once you do-- and that's
what happened with Jeff.
He had this experience, and
he was so profoundly moved
once the process was finished,
he said, I just feel different.
I feel different than I felt
before I started this process.
In a good way.
And so he was very interested
in what had transpired.
He actually brain mapped
himself before the process,
and then after.
And his story's very interesting
about what he noticed.
This very big shift in the
consciousness of his own brain,
in the brain energy patterns.
>>REGINA: I'm going to
be interviewing him,
so I will ask him about that.
>>WILLIAMS: Wonderful.
Please do.
Because that got his
undivided attention.
According to Jeff,
what he saw, the change
he saw in that short
period of time,
was impossible in
his discipline.
And yet, there it was.
So he's a very wonderful
man, with a very keen sense
of inquiry, and
curiosity, as I am,
interested in finding out stuff.
And so he started
along this path.
He said, there's something
here I got to find out about.
So he gave me a call,
we met on the phone,
and decided that we
needed to get together.
So my wife and I drove down to
Phoenix, Arizona-- or Glendale,
actually.
It's a suburb of Phoenix,
where Jeff's office is.
And we decided we were going to
do some experiments, because he
had all the equipment.
He could hook me up to
this brain mapping device--
it's an EEG machine,
essentially,
and then in its more
sophisticated level
it's called quantum
electroencephalogram, QEEG.
Jeff will tell you
more about that.
But we had the high
tech toys to play with.
>>REGINA: To really see
the effect on the brain--
>>WILLIAMS: Yes.
>>REGINA: -- of PSYCH-K.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>WILLIAMS: And we stretched
it, because we didn't just
do ordinary PSYCH-K.
We decided we
were going to do
some experiments
I had done 20 years earlier
but didn't have the equipment
to measure the effects.
And that was about
three or four years
into using PSYCH-K in
my private practice.
I kept wondering, because
my spiritual awareness
kept growing, and my curiosity
about the spirit world,
and all that.
I just decided that
I had to find out
if we could make a link-up,
while in physical bodies,
mind to mind, with beings like
the collective consciousness
of the universe, or Christ
consciousness, or Buddha
consciousness, or, in this
case, people that I admired,
like Nikola Tesla,
or Edgar Cayce,
the great American psychic.
And I thought there might
be a way to do that.
So in an experimental way, using
a process in PSYCH-K called
"surrogation," which allows
this higher self to higher self
link-up--
>>REGINA: That's
why you can do that
on behalf of people,
other people,
even if they're not aware
of the process, right?
>>WILLIAMS: That's right.
You can use it long
distance to help people
that you can't have be in
front of you, doing PSYCH-K.
So it's very valuable
in that context.
>>REGINA: But you can even do it
through another person, right?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Like, my
brother is having--
I don't have a
brother, but say I
say my brother's
having a hard time.
You could work on my
brother through me.
That's another type
of surrogate procedure
you do as well, right?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
I work with people
in that situation,
but there's a permission
protocol associated with it
that has to do with
the person's spirit.
Just because you
and I might think,
well, gee, your brother's in
bad shape here, let's help him--
>>REGINA: No, I get this.
>>WILLIAMS: -- then you
have to honor what that
person's soul's journey is.
>>REGINA: Spiritual approval.
>>WILLIAMS: Right.
>>REGINA: Which may not be a
buy-in by their conscious mind.
>>WILLIAMS: No, not at all.
They're two different things.
>>REGINA: I just wanted
to bring that up,
because I remembered that you
do that kind of surrogate work
as well.
Let's go into this
kind of surrogate work,
where you're talking with
a disembodied individual--
disincarnate individuals.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
Beings without bodies.
>>REGINA: Who knows?
Maybe the beings even have
an extension of themselves
from that time that's still
existing in the matrix.
Who knows how that goes?
>>WILLIAMS: Exactly.
Well, when I proposed
this to Jeff, he lit up.
He thought, that's a very
interesting hypothesis.
Let's find out if
there's any way
that the machinery will
indicate that there's
some consciousness
other than your own mind
in a linked-up state.
So, Raes, my wife,
facilitated the link-ups.
There were eight
or nine of them.
The ones that I found
most interesting
were actually with Edgar
Cayce, and Nikola Tesla.
Several of the other ones
had interesting impacts,
but they were more
physiological.
Sensations in my body.
But with Cayce, it was
the most amazing thing.
That's what got me.
>>REGINA: That's
a powerful entity.
>>WILLIAMS: Oh, jeez.
And I've admired Cayce
and his work for years.
In fact, Bruce Lipton
and I gave a presentation
at the Association for
Research and Enlightenment,
several years ago.
So I make the link-up, it's OK
with Cayce, it's OK with me,
so we're linked-up now.
And I'm going through
the same procedure
I'd gone through with every
one of these other experiments.
The short period of time,
doing exactly the same kinds
of things.
Jeff was in charge of that part.
He's the scientist, and
he's being meticulous
about how we're doing this.
>>REGINA: He has your
electrodes on the head.
>>WILLIAMS: Oh, yeah.
20 of them, in a little skull
cap that's ever so attractive.
With all the goo in it.
>>REGINA: Like being in an
old beauty parlor, only worse.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah, yeah.
Like one of the
old-time swimmers.
At any rate, I'm
in this process,
and just going along
with it, and all
of a sudden-- all of a
sudden, I get this feeling
that I'm not in this chair.
I'm not even in the room
anymore, where I was with Jeff.
All of a sudden, I'm standing
there, in some place.
Cayce is with me--
his consciousness--
he's standing to my right-- I
remember this very vividly--
and he shows me this
place, and this place
is-- what it looked like to me--
the only thing I can liken it
to in our world
is very, very tall
walls of little LED lights.
Billions and billions
of LED lights.
And they went all the way
out into the distance,
and I couldn't see where
those two walls ended.
And all of a sudden, Cayce
is saying, look, this
is the Hall of Records.
This is where the Akashic
Records, the records
of every soul on
the planet, exist.
This is how I did what I did.
I went to the Akashic
Records, I would then
read the Akashic record
of that individual,
and that's how I knew
how to help them.
Either what they needed
therapeutically, medicine,
or some other intervention.
And I'm looking at
this, fascinated.
Imagine yourself
in this situation.
So I'm listening
to Cayce explain
how he did all this stuff.
I'm staring at
all this stuff, he
says, OK, pick any one
of the lights here,
and he said, just focus on it.
So I did.
I found one on
the wall, and just
arbitrarily picked on that.
And it moved out
of the wall, and it
came over about three
feet in front of us.
And it opened up, like
it was a little vault.
And he's explaining how this
Akashic record is encased
in this area, and
every one of these LEDs
represents a different soul.
Oh, it was so fascinating.
So I'm listening intently to
him, and all of a sudden I
hear, behind me, this
sound of this voice,
and it says, "I need
to speak with Jeff."
And I think, what?
I'm thinking I'm hallucinating--
I'm already hallucinating,
it feels like, because here I
am in this really amazing place.
But it was so real, and
so lucid, and so detailed.
So then I'm listening
some more, and then I
hear the voice again.
"I need to speak Jeff."
And finally, I
just turned around,
and I don't know how this works,
but I knew it was Nikola Tesla.
It was as if I could read
his stream of energy.
His energy signature.
And I looked at him, and
I said, "OK, Nikola."
And he says, "Tell Jeff to
meet me in alpha theta."
I said, "OK--"
>>REGINA: So that's
not your language,
but that was Jeff's language.
>>WILLIAMS: No, it's
Jeff's language.
I said, "OK, I'll tell
him that, but could I
go back now to Cayce?
I'd really like to find
out more about this."
But I promised Tesla
that I would tell Jeff.
>>REGINA: That's what
you were experiencing
as you were going through it.
But what was Jeff seeing as
you were going through it?
Because he says that
whole-brain state
is the pathway to our expanded
consciousness to The All.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
And he'll talk more about
that, more lucidly than I can.
What we've done is we've
written three technical papers
together, and they
have been published,
in different fields--
one in neuroscience,
one in psychotherapy, and
one in, actually, business
management.
And what we saw in the
research that we did,
subsequently to our meeting,
and all this fascinating stuff,
was that the typical
outcome-- 98% of the time,
a person doing one of the
PSYCH-K balances, or change
processes, ends up in
this whole-brain state.
This whole-brain
state is, in effect,
a balanced identification
between the left and the right
hemisphere of the brain,
where cross-talk is magnified,
and you get communication
going very quickly
and uninterrupted--
>>REGINA: And it was
showing up in the brain map.
>>WILLIAMS: Yes.
>>REGINA: The
changes-- when you were
going into this
whole-brain state,
when you were communicating with
the beings on the other side,
was distinctly different than
it had been prior, right?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
What happened was-- let's
get this straight, too,
because we weren't
doing balances.
We were doing an experiment.
Where we saw the 98%
change was in people
who actually did
a PSYCH-K balance.
I'm telling you this story about
how we stretched the envelope
because we were
curious about it.
So when I went into
the state, and we
went in with the
permission protocols that
are spiritual in nature,
that's what made the link-up.
Then I was taken, in
this case with Cayce,
to see the Hall of Records,
and the Akashic Records,
and that's where Tesla said,
"I need to speak to Jeff."
So when this was all over,
I turned around to Jeff
and I just said,
"well, that was weird."
I said, "I just met Nikola
Tesla and Edgar Cayce,
and Tesla has a message for you.
Meet him in alpha theta.
Does that make
any sense to you?"
And Jeff says, "Of
course it does.
I have alpha theta machinery
all over the place here.
And I regularly go there,
so I know how to do that."
>>REGINA: It's interesting,
because we recently
interviewed Patrick Flanagan,
and that, of course,
feeds into the Tesla story.
But, as Patrick Flanagan,
when he was a kid,
he invented something
called the Neurophone.
And what you just said
triggered my bringing this up.
What he designed it
for was to create
a quicker speed, synapse speed,
between the right and left
hemispheres of the brain.
And he said, as
a result of that,
his IQ became such they actually
couldn't even measure it,
and he could simultaneously
be expressing himself
in beta, alpha, theta,
even down into gamma--
>>WILLIAMS: And delta--
>>REGINA: -- delta,
at the same time.
Which is not--
that's not possible.
Unless you're one of the,
maybe, top meditating
monks in the world,
that's not something
that's really possible.
But he did it by
stimulating that exact thing
that you and Jeff
were talking about.
>>WILLIAMS: Right.
>>REGINA: So that means
there are sciences out
there that just aren't
helping facilitate this
as well, which is
really exciting.
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah, and this
is very portable science.
Because with the PSYCH-K, you
can do it anywhere, anytime.
And I've had kids
as young as eight
years old come to these
classes and just suck it up,
because it's not
difficult, or complicated,
and people 80 or 90 years old.
So, the full spectrum of people.
It doesn't matter
how old you are,
you can benefit from
this whole-brain state.
>>REGINA: So the
deal is, once you
can get the two portions of
the brain to really, clearly,
start flowing back and
forth with each other,
is that what's called
the whole-brain state?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
If you have this balance
identification energetically
between the hemispheres
of the brain,
they're operating
simultaneously,
not sequentially.
Jeff has coined the
phrase that this
is a "gateway to
higher consciousness,"
and that's what he's
seeing as a neuroscientist,
and where we're going.
>>REGINA: Which is
exciting, because that's not
where neuroscience has been.
They're mapping out really
basic behavioral, temperature,
left brain stuff,
a lot of the time.
This is really an
exciting new territory
you guys are going into.
>>WILLIAMS: Very much.
Jeff is one of the most
accomplished neuroscientists
in this field of human
evolution right now.
And I've been very
privileged to be
able to work with
him, and for us
to put our heads together,
and our backgrounds together,
and be able to show that
people can, in fact, change
their consciousness
very quickly.
>>REGINA: And he's seeing that
the PSYCH-K is giving that
whole-brain state--
>>WILLIAMS: That's correct.
>>REGINA: --is allowing
that whole brain state
to establish itself in people.
>>WILLIAMS: That's what our
research papers are about.
Most of them are peer reviewed.
It's showing up that this
is the way it actually
works in your brain, and that
anybody can achieve this state.
>>REGINA: Have you
noticed the same thing
as what Patrick Flanagan
was talking about?
In that, as people go
through this process,
they might find
even a quickening
of their mental processes?
>>WILLIAMS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Talk about
that a little bit.
>>WILLIAMS: Well,
I can talk about it
from my personal history,
more than anything else.
My experience is,
over the years,
because I've done more
PSYCH-K than anybody
I know, because I was
there when it originated.
And people often
ask, well, what's
PSYCH-K done for you, Rob?
What's the big difference
between you and other people
and PSYCH-K?
And I say, well, for me
the big benefit of PSYCH-K
is my highs in life
have gotten much higher.
And my lows have
gotten much higher.
So it's as if the whole
scale of experience,
of human experience, goes
up a big, giant step.
And so, I used to spend a
lot more time in my lows,
and they were a lot lower.
Now, it's like a little,
acute experience of low.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
I could feel that way,
but this is way better.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And as people are hearing
this, they're thinking,
yes, I want that.
So, let's look at it in reverse.
Right now, what you're talking
about, that's your reality.
You've been doing
this for a long time.
And I can feel it.
You have a very nice, clean,
high frequency about you.
But a lot of people are
mired in the everydayness
of a lot of negative
feedback and programming
coming from every direction.
Now let's talk about
that for a moment,
because we have to somehow
get out of the mire.
What does that look
like, when you're
looking at brain mapping?
Do you have any idea
what Jeff is seeing,
and what you were
seeing in people,
when you're just
stuck in the mud?
>>WILLIAMS: The mud
is perception, Regina.
And when you change your
perception, there is no mud.
That's the thing.
People are so used to
thinking about, oh, I've
got this deeply
ingrained, limiting belief
that I can't change, and so on.
It's mostly myth these
days, and not fact.
When it comes right
down to it, our minds
are photons of light, held
in an electromagnetic field.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>WILLIAMS: And so
when you move energy,
when you get the laser going
in the right direction, all
of a sudden all that changes.
And then your
perception changes.
And that drives
biochemical changes.
And then your body is different.
That's why this whole
psychoneuroimmunological thing
is real.
>>REGINA: And it
starts with a choice.
>>WILLIAMS: It starts with
a conscious choice, followed
by subconscious change that
informs the cells in a new way.
It's a beautiful,
beautiful thing to see.
>>REGINA: And one thing I've
heard you say in the past
is, you've spoken
about the mind.
Taking back our minds is really
the last frontier of freedom.
>>WILLIAMS: Right.
I think, in our culture
that give such credence
and importance to money,
and money management,
as a way to feel
safe in the world,
and to feel in
control of your life,
I say mind management is way
more important than that.
And your spiritual development
is the top of that pyramid.
For you to learn
and remember who
you really are, as
a spiritual being
having a human experience,
not the other way around.
Once you step into
that full-knowing?
It's kind of like the
biblical reference about,
first enter the
kingdom of heaven,
then all else will
be given to you?
I say, first enter the
full awareness of who
you are as a divine being
having a human experience,
and everything you
need to support
that will be given to you.
>>REGINA: So it's
only a choice away.
Thank you so much
for your time, Rob.
Absolutely beautiful
work you do.
As we spoke about
before, PSYCH-K
has about 40 certified trainers
around the world for those
wishing to become facilitators,
and thousands of facilitators,
if you just need a
little help yourself.
With the amount of
fear-mongering and tension
surrounding us on a
daily basis, perhaps it
is time to begin
restructuring what
lies underneath our
feelings and behavior.
You can connect with PSYCH-K
through P-S-Y-C-H, Psych,
dash K, dot com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]